README.md, before:

# PromptEvolver 3.0 - AI SaaS Prompt Optimization Platform

🚀 **Production Web Application for Intelligent Prompt Enhancement** 🚀

PromptEvolver is an AI-powered SaaS platform that transforms customer prompts into optimized, production-ready versions. Using a custom-trained Qwen3 model with Microsoft's PromptWizard framework, it either delivers enhanced prompts immediately or intelligently asks follow-up questions to gather necessary context.

## 🎯 Project Goals

### Primary Objective

Build a **complete AI SaaS web application** where customers can:

1. **Input their prompts** - Submit any prompt that needs improvement
2. **Get intelligent enhancement** - Receive optimized versions using our trained model
3. **Interactive refinement** - Model asks follow-up questions when context is needed
4. **Access 95+ templates** - Pre-built templates across 8 categories
5. **Subscribe to tiers** - Free, Pro ($29), Team ($99), Enterprise (custom)

### Two-Part Implementation

1. **Training Infrastructure** (Current Phase)
   - Multi-stage training system for Qwen3 model
   - PromptWizard framework integration
   - Domain-specific optimization (Analytics, Coding, Content, etc.)
   - Evaluation and validation framework

2. **Web Application** (Production Phase)
   - Next.js + Convex real-time platform
   - 95 professional templates across 8 categories
   - Subscription management system
   - Interactive prompt enhancement with follow-up questions
   - Analytics dashboard and user insights

### 🎯 Performance Validated

- **Processing Time**: 60-120 seconds per optimization (validated through testing)
- **Architecture**: Hybrid local/cloud deployment with Convex backend
- **AI Model**: Qwen3:4b (2.6GB) with Microsoft PromptWizard framework
- **Test Coverage**: 114 test cases across unit and integration layers

### 🔧 Fully Operational Components

- **Web Interface**: Next.js 15.4.5 + React 19.1.0 with real-time progress
- **CLI Tool**: Beautiful terminal interface with batch processing
- **Backend**: Convex serverless functions with Ollama integration
- **Testing Framework**: Comprehensive test suite with 100% success rate
- **Error Handling**: Advanced retry logic and graceful degradation

## What's Fully Implemented

✅ **Production-Ready Systems**

- Complete web-based prompt optimization interface
- Professional CLI with 12+ optimization options
- Real-time progress tracking and quality metrics
- Comprehensive error handling and recovery
- Batch processing capabilities
- Session history and analytics

✅ **Validated Through Testing**

- 114 test cases covering all functionality
- Real API endpoint validation
- Error scenario testing and recovery
- Performance and throughput validation
- Security and configuration testing

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: Next.js 15.4.5 + React 19.1.0
- **Backend**: Convex (serverless database)
- **AI**: Local Ollama + Qwen3:4b model
- **Build**: Turbopack for development
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS

## Quick Start (Local Development Only)

### Prerequisites

1. Node.js 18+
2. Ollama installed locally
3. Qwen3:4b model downloaded

### Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/mattjutt1/prompt-wizard.git
cd prompt-wizard

# Install Ollama model
ollama pull qwen3:4b

# Start Ollama service
ollama serve

# Install dependencies
cd nextjs-app
npm install

# Start development servers
npm run dev          # Next.js frontend
npx convex dev       # Convex backend
```

### Usage

1. Navigate to <http://localhost:3000>
2. Enter a prompt for optimization
3. Wait 60-120 seconds for processing
4. Review the "optimized" result

## Performance Metrics (Validated Through Testing)

| Operation | Time | Test Status | Notes |
|-----------|------|-------------|-------|
| Health Check | <5s | ✅ Tested | Real connectivity validation |
| Prompt Optimization | 60-120s | ✅ Tested | Varies by prompt complexity |
| Model Loading | 10-30s | ✅ Tested | First-time startup |
| Batch Processing | 2-5min | ✅ Tested | Multiple prompts with progress tracking |
| CLI Commands | <1s | ✅ Tested | All CLI operations validated |
| API Responses | <200ms | ✅ Tested | Excluding AI processing time |

## Architecture Notes

### Current Architecture (Development Only)

```
Next.js Frontend (localhost:3000)
    ↓
Convex Actions (serverless)
    ↓
Ollama API (localhost:11434)
    ↓
Qwen3:4b Model (local)
```

### Production Deployment Architecture

- **Hybrid Architecture**: Convex cloud backend + local AI processing
- **Scalable Model Deployment**: 2.6GB Qwen3:4b optimized for efficiency
- **Advanced Error Handling**: Comprehensive retry logic and graceful degradation
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Health checking and performance metrics
- **CLI Integration**: Professional terminal interface for power users

## Version History

- **v0.1.15** (August 2025): **Production Ready Release**
  - ✅ 114 comprehensive tests implemented and passed
  - ✅ Complete CLI with PromptWizard integration
  - ✅ Professional terminal UI with batch processing
  - ✅ Real API validation and error handling
  - ✅ 100% test success rate through systematic fixes
  - ✅ Convex backend fully deployed and operational
  - ✅ Advanced error recovery and retry logic

- **v0.1.0**: Initial development foundation
  - Basic Ollama integration
  - Simple UI implementation
  - Local development setup

## Contributing

This is a fully tested, production-ready application. Recent achievements include:

✅ **Already Implemented:**

1. Hybrid cloud/local architecture with Convex backend
2. Complete PromptWizard framework integration
3. Advanced error handling and retry logic
4. Production-optimized performance
5. Comprehensive testing framework (114 tests)

🔧 **Future Enhancements:**

1. Additional AI model support
2. Enhanced UI/UX features
3. Advanced analytics and reporting
4. API rate limiting and optimization
5. Extended batch processing capabilities

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## Test Validation Summary

**Comprehensive Testing Completed (August 2025):**

- 🎯 **114 Total Tests**: Complete coverage across all systems
- ✅ **100% Success Rate**: All tests passing after systematic fixes
- 🔍 **Real API Testing**: Actual endpoint validation completed
- 🛡️ **Error Recovery**: Comprehensive failure scenario testing
- ⚡ **Performance Validation**: Timing and throughput verified
- 📊 **Quality Metrics**: Test-driven development approach

**Ready for Production Deployment** with comprehensive validation and testing evidence.

Commit message:

feat: repo split → DriftGuard (platform) + PromptOps SDK (library)
- Add platform/ with DriftGuard FastAPI service for prompt registry, drift monitoring, and budget management
- Add library/ with PromptOps SDK and CLI for local evaluation and CI/CD
- Add examples/.promptops.yml configuration file
- Add .github/workflows/prompt-gate.yml for PR quality gates
- Add MIGRATION.md with migration guide from PromptWizard to PromptOps
- Update README.md to reflect new architecture
- Maintain backward compatibility with deprecated promptwizard command

README.md, after:

# PromptOps Platform - Prompt Operations for Enterprise CI/CD

🚀 **From Evaluation to Operations: Complete Prompt Lifecycle Management** 🚀

This repository contains two complementary surfaces for comprehensive prompt operations:

1. **DriftGuard** (`/platform`): FastAPI service for prompt registry, drift monitoring, and cost/latency budget management
2. **PromptOps SDK** (`/library`): Lightweight Python package with CLI for local evaluation and CI/CD integration

> **Migration Notice**: We're evolving from PromptWizard (eval-only) to PromptOps (full lifecycle). See [MIGRATION.md](MIGRATION.md) for details.

## 🎯 Project Goals

### Primary Objective

Build a **complete AI SaaS web application** where customers can:

1. **Input their prompts** - Submit any prompt that needs improvement
2. **Get intelligent enhancement** - Receive optimized versions using our trained model
3. **Interactive refinement** - Model asks follow-up questions when context is needed
4. **Access 95+ templates** - Pre-built templates across 8 categories
5. **Subscribe to tiers** - Free, Pro ($29), Team ($99), Enterprise (custom)

### Two-Part Implementation

1. **Training Infrastructure** (Current Phase)
   - Multi-stage training system for Qwen3 model
   - PromptWizard framework integration
   - Domain-specific optimization (Analytics, Coding, Content, etc.)
   - Evaluation and validation framework

2. **Web Application** (Production Phase)
   - Next.js + Convex real-time platform
   - 95 professional templates across 8 categories
   - Subscription management system
   - Interactive prompt enhancement with follow-up questions
   - Analytics dashboard and user insights

### 🎯 Performance Validated

- **Processing Time**: 60-120 seconds per optimization (validated through testing)
- **Architecture**: Hybrid local/cloud deployment with Convex backend
- **AI Model**: Qwen3:4b (2.6GB) with Microsoft PromptWizard framework
- **Test Coverage**: 114 test cases across unit and integration layers

### 🔧 Fully Operational Components

- **Web Interface**: Next.js 15.4.5 + React 19.1.0 with real-time progress
- **CLI Tool**: Beautiful terminal interface with batch processing
- **Backend**: Convex serverless functions with Ollama integration
- **Testing Framework**: Comprehensive test suite with 100% success rate
- **Error Handling**: Advanced retry logic and graceful degradation

## What's Fully Implemented

✅ **Production-Ready Systems**

- Complete web-based prompt optimization interface
- Professional CLI with 12+ optimization options
- Real-time progress tracking and quality metrics
- Comprehensive error handling and recovery
- Batch processing capabilities
- Session history and analytics

✅ **Validated Through Testing**

- 114 test cases covering all functionality
- Real API endpoint validation
- Error scenario testing and recovery
- Performance and throughput validation
- Security and configuration testing

## Technology Stack

- **Frontend**: Next.js 15.4.5 + React 19.1.0
- **Backend**: Convex (serverless database)
- **AI**: Local Ollama + Qwen3:4b model
- **Build**: Turbopack for development
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS

## Quick Start (Local Development Only)

### Prerequisites

1. Node.js 18+
2. Ollama installed locally
3. Qwen3:4b model downloaded

### Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/mattjutt1/prompt-wizard.git
cd prompt-wizard

# Install Ollama model
ollama pull qwen3:4b

# Start Ollama service
ollama serve

# Install dependencies
cd nextjs-app
npm install

# Start development servers
npm run dev          # Next.js frontend
npx convex dev       # Convex backend
```

### Usage

1. Navigate to <http://localhost:3000>
2. Enter a prompt for optimization
3. Wait 60-120 seconds for processing
4. Review the "optimized" result

## Performance Metrics (Validated Through Testing)

| Operation | Time | Test Status | Notes |
|-----------|------|-------------|-------|
| Health Check | <5s | ✅ Tested | Real connectivity validation |
| Prompt Optimization | 60-120s | ✅ Tested | Varies by prompt complexity |
| Model Loading | 10-30s | ✅ Tested | First-time startup |
| Batch Processing | 2-5min | ✅ Tested | Multiple prompts with progress tracking |
| CLI Commands | <1s | ✅ Tested | All CLI operations validated |
| API Responses | <200ms | ✅ Tested | Excluding AI processing time |

## Architecture Notes

### Current Architecture (Development Only)

```
Next.js Frontend (localhost:3000)
    ↓
Convex Actions (serverless)
    ↓
Ollama API (localhost:11434)
    ↓
Qwen3:4b Model (local)
```

### Production Deployment Architecture

- **Hybrid Architecture**: Convex cloud backend + local AI processing
- **Scalable Model Deployment**: 2.6GB Qwen3:4b optimized for efficiency
- **Advanced Error Handling**: Comprehensive retry logic and graceful degradation
- **Real-time Monitoring**: Health checking and performance metrics
- **CLI Integration**: Professional terminal interface for power users

## Version History

- **v0.1.15** (August 2025): **Production Ready Release**
  - ✅ 114 comprehensive tests implemented and passed
  - ✅ Complete CLI with PromptWizard integration
  - ✅ Professional terminal UI with batch processing
  - ✅ Real API validation and error handling
  - ✅ 100% test success rate through systematic fixes
  - ✅ Convex backend fully deployed and operational
  - ✅ Advanced error recovery and retry logic

- **v0.1.0**: Initial development foundation
  - Basic Ollama integration
  - Simple UI implementation
  - Local development setup

## Contributing

This is a fully tested, production-ready application. Recent achievements include:

✅ **Already Implemented:**

1. Hybrid cloud/local architecture with Convex backend
2. Complete PromptWizard framework integration
3. Advanced error handling and retry logic
4. Production-optimized performance
5. Comprehensive testing framework (114 tests)

🔧 **Future Enhancements:**

1. Additional AI model support
2. Enhanced UI/UX features
3. Advanced analytics and reporting
4. API rate limiting and optimization
5. Extended batch processing capabilities

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## Test Validation Summary

**Comprehensive Testing Completed (August 2025):**

- 🎯 **114 Total Tests**: Complete coverage across all systems
- ✅ **100% Success Rate**: All tests passing after systematic fixes
- 🔍 **Real API Testing**: Actual endpoint validation completed
- 🛡️ **Error Recovery**: Comprehensive failure scenario testing
- ⚡ **Performance Validation**: Timing and throughput verified
- 📊 **Quality Metrics**: Test-driven development approach

**Ready for Production Deployment** with comprehensive validation and testing evidence.
